---
title: 'Plain Old React + Babylon.js'
sort: 400
---

Once you have a React project set up, you can program Babylon.js imperitively
just like they tell you in the
[official Babylon.js + React guide](https://doc.babylonjs.com/extensions/Babylon.js+ExternalLibraries/BabylonJS_and_ReactJS).
Here is a direct copy of their demo.

[devtool:FullImperitive.tsx]

The demo above is produced using imperitive Typescript. Wow, it takes **almost
150 lines of code** to make a box show up on a screen! But do not be scared. We
are showing you how much work it actually takes so you'll fully appreciate the
power of `react-babylonjs`.

As you review the code, notice everything happens in sequence and you are
responsible for re-running affected code when you change the input values.

In [reactive programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reactive_programming), a
change in the application state naturally cascades to affected code. There are
many benefits to a reactive programming style that we won't cover here. But
speed, efficiency, and ability to reason through complex state changes are among
the many benefits.

Mixing imperitive programming with React is generally an antipattern because it
reduces the benefits of reactive programming.

Therefore, the sample above - while it technically _does_ run in the React
framework - is the least desirable way to use Babylon.js in React.

Babylon.js has created a helpful
[babylonjs-hook](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babylonjs-hook) package which
takes `SceneComponent` and puts it in a package. That's good, but you still must
write the `onSceneReady` handler which is imperitive programming. We can reduce
the line count to **60 lines of code**, but all we've done is move part of it
into a 3rd party package. The approach is still fundamentally the same: It's
still imperitive programming, not declarative or reactive programming.

Here is the same using their package:

[devtool:WithHooks.tsx]

In summary, this guide has shown you how to use imperitive programming within
React - we think this is an antipattern to be avoided.
